Previously on CSI: Vegas...
All of these cases,
all of these people,
are related.
Alan Herskovitz.
He killed Lynn Zobrist.
And then he went after
Lamont Moore.
FOLSOM:
We found this dossier hidden
in Lamont's motel room
and somebody wanted him
to commit a murder.
Along with this note.
AUERBACH: Reminds me
of the Voynich Manuscript.
The author invented
his own language.
Why do you think it's happening?
Could it be a game?
WILLOWS: Are those doodles
on the carbon paper?
GILL: What else would they be?
RAJAN:
Proof that Dr Auerbach
has some secrets?
When she gets back to Vegas,
she's gonna answer
some hard questions.
DISPATCHER:
Las Vegas Fire and Rescue,
what's your emergency?
MAN:
I'm in an alley off of Flamingo
just east of Paradise,
I want to report a stabbing.
DISPATCHER:
Are you with the victim?
Yeah, it's me.
I was stabbed in the stomach.
Okay, sir, what's your name?
Mike Webber.
Mr. Webber, I'm dispatching
an ambulance and police now.
Can you identify
the person who hurt you?
This guy, this, uh...
this loudmouth in a bar,
we got into it and...
he took off.
Okay, sir. Help is on the way.
I will stay on the line until...
No, no, no, I'll be okay.
Mr. Webber, are you sure--
(groaning)
♪ ♪
(distant sirens wailing)
(heartbeat pounding)
(sirens wailing)
EMS:
Control. Medic 17.
I have an ATL on the victim.
Appears unresponsive.
Okay. Let's go.
Sir, can you hear me?
Sir?
No response.
He's apneic.
Pupil are fixed
and dilated, no pulse.
I've got EKG.
(sustained beep)
That's it.
(radio chatter)
FOLSOM:
Hey, Chris,
you think that's what people
will notice when you're dead?
A hole in your shoe?
PARK:
No chance, man.
I keep my sneaks fresh.
Bro...
this is my third double
this week.
I like overtime, but I'd
like a little time off, too.
(clicks)
Think Beau's getting back
in the field anytime soon?
Uh, something he said to me
the other day makes me doubt it.
PARK:
What's that?
"I'm not going back in
the field anytime soon."
Ah. All right.
FOLSOM:
Michael Webber.
Tourist. Looks like
home address is Phoenix.
Apparently Webber told 911
he'd been stabbed
by a guy he met at a bar.
LVPD is canvassing now.
Any idea why
the ground is wet?
Hmm, not sure.
We're behind a
restaurant,
they probably clean
things back here.
You notice all the blood?
Not really.
Me neither.
Guy gets cut in the belly,
dies in minutes, bleeds out
fast. Where's the blood?
PARK: Could be
internal bleeding.
(phone ringing)
Hey, Allie, what's up?
RAJAN:
Guess who's back in Vegas.
Diane Auerbach.
Headed to her house now.
Why Auerbach's house?
RAJAN: Well, she got an earlier
flight than expected.
She lands in about an hour.
I just want to get to her house
and pick her up when
she gets there.
Can you meet me
there with uniforms?
Hey, Al.
You want to bring
Auerbach in today?
Max said to pick her up as
soon as she's back and...
she's back.
We're actually at
a scene right now.
Got a canvass underway,
the guys just
started processing.
Okay, we shouldn't wait.
If Auerbach is behind
the silver ink killings,
we're talking multiple
homicides here,
more to come as well.
Listen, if you can't
meet me there,
I'll just... I'll go
pick her up myself.
Okay, LVPD's got the canvass,
we can handle everything here.
Okay. Uh, yeah,
I'm on my way.
It's gonna take me
a little while.
Just hold off on doing anything.
All right.
Okey doke. See you soon.
Thank you.
Yeah, I'll catch up
with you when I get back.
He wasn't just any old tourist.
FOLSOM:
"Gorge-A-Palooza."
Eating contest?
Might've been a contestant.
We should find out
where it was held.
Hey. Do you see
those bruises?
Hilt of a knife made them.
Find the knife
we can match to the wound.
FOLSOM:
Huh.
I can tell you this
is gonna be weirder
than your everyday
stabbing.
CHRIS: How?
This isn't blood.
I think...
(sniffs)
I think it's
barbecue sauce.
What the hell
happened to this guy?
♪ ♪
♪ Who... are you? ♪
♪ Who, who, who, who? ♪
♪ I really wanna know ♪
♪ Who... are you? ♪
♪ Oh-oh-oh ♪
♪ Who... ♪
♪ Come on, tell me who are you,
you, you ♪
♪ Are you! ♪
♪ ♪
ROBY:
Dr. Milton Hudson,
I presume?
You must be
Dr. Roby.
Thanks for filling in
while our head M.E.
was out of town.
Folks in San Jose
were singing your praises
so dang much I had
to hang up on them.
I'm happy to fill in.
I hear this guy was
bleeding barbecue sauce, huh?
Kansas City style,
from the presence of
ketchup and molasses.
The sauce extruded due
to omental evisceration.
Pressure from inside the stomach
forcing the contents out.
I think...
it's pulled pork.
I hear he was in some
kind of eating contest.
Never seen anything
quite like it.
His stomach...
That's a lot.
...three times
the normal size.
Must be 15 pounds
of food in there.
Did that contribute
to his death?
Won't know until
I get inside.
15 pounds of pulled pork.
What were you thinking?
And Kansas City
sauce. Mm-mm.
It's laced with sugar.
It's for children and the weak.
♪ ♪
Hey.
You were supposed
to bring backup.
We're not taking
Auerbach in.
Why not?
It's the wrong move.
Notes from her
therapy sessions
were used to blackmail targets
into committing murder.
She'll say she gave us some
of those notes, which she did.
She also claimed
some had been stolen.
Who knows what
she's up to?
Maybe she's
toying with us.
All the more reason
not to bring her in
without solid evidence.
Otherwise
we'll tip her off
she's a suspect with
nothing to show for it.
(sighs)
Okay, what do we do?
Get a search warrant.
Collect all the evidence
in the house first.
We're gonna have to convince a
judge we have probable cause
to believe that there's
evidence inside the house.
It's worse.
She's a therapist,
her notes and files
are privileged.
A judge won't approve a
warrant unless it's airtight.
(car door closing)
She's here.
Chavez, why are
you smiling?
Because
you want this case so bad
it's practically
vibrating off of you.
Listen, I want
Auerbach, too.
But let's do it
the right way.
♪ ♪
Hey, Chris.
You see how this drop
of blood is elongated?
Like a teardrop?
Means, uh, Webber was
walking when it fell.
The strike point,
the fat end,
points to where he
was coming from.
We follow this trail,
we'll end up where
Webber was stabbed.
Right on.
♪ ♪
Yo.
There's a big
cluster over here.
Must be where the
stabbing happened.
(camera clicks)
Partial footprint, too.
(groans)
Hey, look.
(clicks)
A few more drops head
in this direction.
Probably fell off the
knife when the attacker ran.
I did the last dumpster.
What?
I-I would do this one,
but Penny just texted me.
That the, uh, Gorge-A-Palooza
is at the Antaeus Hotel.
I-I got to check
it out, man.
Beau should
be doing this.
You got this.
MAN:
Are you ready to gorge?
(cheering, applause)
I'm Jason Ketchum,
your host.
Our next event is a celebration
of litopenaus setiferus,
better known as everyone's
favorite oxymoron:
the jumbo shrimp!
(cheering)
CROWD (chanting):
Jumbo shrimp! Jumbo shrimp!
These champions of chew
will have 12 minutes to eat
as many jumbo shrimp
as they can!
(cheering, applause)
Are you ready?
Three...
ALL:
Two! One!
(bell dinging)
Gorge!
♪ ♪
Ugh.
Oh, God.
(groans)
(bell ringing)
KETCHUM:
We have a winner!
With 14 pounds,
four ounces consumed,
the King of Crustacea,
Sultan of Shrimp,
Mason Parlakis!
(crowd cheering)
Here with the coveted
champion's belt
is the winner of
yesterday's competition,
MMA superstar
Rita DeBenedetto.
(cheering)
When I was a fighter,
I learned what
a champion looks like.
Mason, you look like
a champion to me.
Whoo!
♪ ♪
(cheering, whooping continues)
Mike Webber's dead?
Ah, that's not cool.
RITA:
Jason.
Uh, Rita...
This guy's from Vegas PD.
He said Mike Webber
was killed last night.
Actually, I'm a CSI.
What happened?
That's what we're trying
to figure out.
He was here yesterday?
Yeah, Mike competed in
the BBQ and Brew, with Rita.
BBQ and Brew?
Beer and barbecue pork
sandwiches.
It's one of our headline events.
Really strong
field this year.
Mike made a
run for it.
But he lost?
He ate 48 sandwiches and
drank 32 ounces of beer, but...
Rita here ate 55.
And... what did
Webber do afterward?
Well, he was upset. He said
some angry things, and...
I don't know. He left.
Alone?
No, with his wife, I think.
But Rita and I have some
press, if you don't mind...
No, no, no, no, not quite yet.
Ms. DeBenedetto, would
you show me your foot, hmm?
(scoffs)
(sighs)
All right, you can go. Thanks.
Uh, Mr. Ketchum,
I'll need that
left shoe.
Huh?
To see if it matches
prints at the scene.
(sighs)
♪ ♪
Well?
I'll let you know.
Yeah. Thanks.
(scoffs)
CHAVEZ:
That's my man.
Making friends wherever he goes.
How's Allie?
Trying to figure out how
to get a search warrant.
Okay. Well, we're done here.
We still have to talk
to Webber's wife.
SHEILA:
Do you have any idea
who stabbed him?
Not yet, Mrs. Webber.
We're working on it.
I just don't understand
why a person would do that.
Can you tell us about Michael?
He was just...
He was just a really great guy.
We met in
high school.
He was a jock. Baseball.
He wanted to play pro,
but that didn't happen.
He ended up teaching gym.
I know it bugged him.
The life he didn't have.
How did he get into
competitive eating?
He won a pie eating
contest. (sniffles)
First prize was more pie.
(chuckles)
Then he got serious.
I worried, you know,
it-it's not good for your
body to eat that much.
But he said it made him
feel like an athlete again.
We heard he was angry
after the contest.
Anyone in particular
he was mad at?
Himself, mostly.
He felt like a failure.
(phone buzzing)
He said he wanted
to be alone.
I should have stayed with him.
This never would've happened--
No, no, don't do
that to yourself.
Excuse me.
Listen...
It doesn't do any good
beating yourself up over
"could've" and "maybe."
Yeah, I guess.
(phone ringing)
Hey, what's up?
Vegas PD found witnesses who
say Michael had an argument
with a repeat offender
near the crime scene.
Name's Calvin Dupree.
He has multiple arrests
for assault with a knife.
Sounds like a lead to me.
We've got a bad guy and a knife.
Let's see if they match up.
Beau. What's the word?
Oh, that I'm here.
In the lab.
Earning a paycheck
like everybody else.
Chris said something.
Yeah. Yeah, he did.
And if he or if anybody else
has a problem
with the fact that I
am not in the field--
No, no one has
a problem, Beau.
We just...
We just miss your
big brain out there.
Anyway... (sighs)
The shoe print you took from
Jason Ketchum doesn't match
the one at the scene. And
the knife that Chris found
has no usable prints or DNA.
Nothing we can tie
to Calvin Dupree.
Forensically.
"Forensically."
The man did have priors
with a blade...
Well, then it's
stabbin' time.
(chuckles) Okay.
♪ ♪
So, Calvin, this confirms
that the knife we found
was used to stab Mike Webber.
Not my knife.
Could be anybody's.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, you're right.
But this...
is from an assault
you were convicted of
four years ago.
ROBY: And you
see them little
hilt marks right there?
That's what you call
a perfect match.
Also, we found
a partial shoe print
that matches a shoe
we found in your apartment.
So you know how this goes
because you've been here before.
Train's leaving the station.
Last chance.
Guy came after me, okay?
I was at the bar
minding my own business
having a beer
when Porky Pig starts
hollering about
how he can out-eat anybody.
So I'm like, "Yo, jackass,
nobody cares."
So we get into it and the
bartender kicks us out.
Once we're outside,
dude tries to jump me and...
(knocking)
OFFICER:
Sorry, Dr. Roby.
But a Dr. Hudson wants
you to check your phone.
Not like I'm doing
nothing, right?
Hey, listen, Calvin.
You've got a half a dozen
assaults on your sheet, man.
You really want us to believe--
I didn't start this!
Look...
Dude was messed up.
He was all twitchy and sweaty,
and red as a monkey's butt.
I just protected
myself.
Uh, Calvin, hold that thought.
Officer, will you keep
an eye on Mr. Dupree?
(door opening)
So, uh, Dr. Hudson,
this is Josh Folsom,
he's lead on the Webber case.
FOLSOM:
Well, I was the lead.
We're about finished.
We got the weapon,
we got the suspect,
we were in the middle
of a confession.
What's the
emergency, Doctor?
This might be awkward.
Um, I removed
the victim's stomach.
Uh, it weighed 17 pounds,
by the way.
I examined the
abdominal cavity
and I found no evidence of
significant internal bleeding.
So, he didn't bleed out?
An abdominal stabbing
is rarely fatal
unless the knife passes
through the stomach
and cuts the
aorta behind it.
Mr. Webber's aorta is intact.
No damage at all.
How'd that happen?
He had a...
pulled pork shield.
The sheer amount of food
in his stomach
prevented it from happening.
The knife just
couldn't get there.
So, I'm afraid that your suspect
has confessed to assault.
Not a homicide.
If the stabbing didn't
kill Webber, what did?
Can't answer
that just yet.
There's a contusion on one knee.
And a discoloration on
his right big toe,
with a matching one
on his left hand.
I haven't determined what
caused that yet either.
None of those sound fatal.
Do we know anything about
Webber's condition
before he
was attacked?
Yeah, the guy with the
knife said he looked weird.
Sweaty, red-faced.
HUDSON: Specifically
said red face?
Yeah, red, red like
"a monkey's butt."
I think I need to
run another test.
♪ ♪
Take a look.
You see those black dots?
FOLSOM: Spores.
From inky cap mushrooms,
I'd wager.
The red face
was a giveaway.
Mr. Webber wasn't
just stabbed.
He was poisoned.
Nice office.
Thank you.
Ooh. Can't really say
the same for the coffee.
So, um, I keep up on my toxins,
uh, but you're gonna
have to help me out here.
Webber's blood contains
1-aminocyclo-who?
1-aminocyclopropanol.
A toxin that forms when
two substances combine.
Starts with
inky cap mushrooms,
which contain coprine.
Coprine's benign
but when it mixes
with alcohol it metabolizes
into 1-aminocyclopranol.
Which is toxic.
The contest required Webber
to drink two quarts of beer.
Mm-hmm.
So, somehow inky cap
mushrooms get into his system.
Mm-hmm.
Here comes
beer... boom?
ROBY:
Yeah, but how toxic
is this combination?
It produces nausea,
agitation, a red face.
Uh, it also elevates your
heart rate, blood pressure.
But is it fatal?
There hasn't been a death
attributed to it,
but that doesn't mean
that there couldn't be,
under the right circumstances.
Well, a toxin like that
would be pretty useful
if you wanted an edge
in an eating contest.
Make your competition
so sick they can't win.
ROBY:
I've seen people
do worse to get less.
Guess we better find out
if someone slipped our guy
a mushroom mickey.
♪ ♪
All right, Beau.
This is all the trash
from the hotel's kitchen.
Manager said
we're lucky,
the pickup's tomorrow.
(trash rustling)
FINADO:
Lucky's one word for it.
♪ ♪
Okay, fill me in.
Trying to get a search warrant
for Diane Auerbach's house.
Look. Chavez found this on
Auerbach's social media
from three weeks ago.
We know the printer
that produced the notes
reacts to silver ink by
distorting characters
in a unique,
identifiable way.
Mm-hmm.
So, we're going to prove
that Auerbach's printer
is the only make and model that
could've produced the notes.
Yep, you might just
get a judge to bite.
Coming through.
Excuse me, how much money are
we spending on printer and ink?
Yeah, you really don't
want to know the answer to that.
Hmm. Folsom.
Yeah?
I tested 35 sandwiches.
No coprine or inky cap in them.
None?
No, not a whisker.
Not a whiff.
So, what about the contents
of Webber's stomach?
Nothing there either.
Whoever poisoned him did it
before the contest started.
It looks like it.
I-I did find one thing.
This one weighs precisely
a quarter of an ounce less.
In fact, I found six
sandwiches that weighed
precisely a quarter ounce
less than the others.
Maybe they fell
apart in the trash?
No, that's not likely.
The-the sauce is a binder.
It holds
them together.
Wait, wait. 50 sandwiches
shorted a quarter ounce,
that's basically three-quarters
of a pound less meat.
That's a pretty
effective shortcut.
What, you think someone
who'd cheat on weight
would poison an opponent?
In for a penny,
in for... almost a pound.
Any way to tell which contestant
got lighter sandwiches?
I did find something.
Okay. All right,
next please.
Thanks. Next please.
This is a meet
and greet, people.
Once you have meeted and
greeted, step aside, okay?
No lingering.
FOLSOM:
Hello.
Yeah? Oh, you again.
Let me guess.
You want my other shoe.
No, we're here to meet
and greet Ms. DeBenedetto.
Me? What about?
We should take this
somewhere else.
I got nothing
to hide.
Okay.
We have evidence
the food you ate
in the contest
was manipulated.
FOLSOM:
Your sandwiches were
smaller than the others.
You ate less.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
You're saying I cheated?
Short answer? Yes.
CHAVEZ:
This was in
one of the altered sandwiches.
It fell out
while you were eating.
KETCHUM: Oh, we are
almost out of time, folks.
Three.
Two. One!
Drop the buns!
Rita DeBenedetto doesn't cheat.
Oh, I think the evidence
says she does.
Rita doesn't cheat!
Anyone who says
Rita does is a liar.
Okay, Rita needs to take it
down a notch.
Okay, guys,
can we-- can we
talk outside, please?
No? Uh-uh.
You can't honestly think
Rita rigged the contest.
Someone did.
But you could be right.
Maybe it wasn't her. Maybe it
was some kind of supervisor.
Yeah, someone with
access to the kitchen
and the stage who
could make sure
the right plate got to
the right contestant.
You accusing me?
We got DNA on the
evidence that we can't identify.
So, give us a sample.
We'll see if it eliminates you.
Yeah?
I don't think so.
CHAVEZ:
Look, we get it.
Rita's a performer
with a social media following.
She's much more promotable
than a middle-aged
gym teacher like Mike Webber.
But rigging a competition
is fraud and a felony.
And if you poisoned Webber
to make him lose,
that's second-degree
homicide now.
Well, I'm not saying anything
else without a lawyer.
And I'm advising Rita
to do the same.
Even if we get a D.A. to pursue
a fraud charge against Ketchum,
it doesn't prove he
poisoned Webber.
No, to do that,
we need to find out
how he got the
poison in him.
You said that
Mike was stabbed.
He was also poisoned.
So that's what killed him?
Well, that's one of the things
we're trying to determine.
We know that he
ingested something toxic
before the contest.
Did you see him eat
anything earlier that day?
Mike didn't eat anything
for 18 hours before a contest.
He was very disciplined
about it.
Were you with him
the whole time?
Um, I-I think so. I don't...
Maybe. I'm not sure, I...
This is so awful.
He must have been
in so much pain.
Sheila, we're gonna find
the person who did this to him.
(shudders, sniffles)
You got my word.
♪ ♪
ROBY:
What am I looking at?
HUDSON:
I'm not sure exactly.
It's organic, it was
some sort of food once.
And it was deep inside
Webber's small intestine.
Okay, so then
whatever his wife says,
this man ate something
during the 18 hours
before the contest, something
that was laced with mushrooms.
Hmm.
Can you analyze the material?
If we know what he ate,
it would be a start.
It's pretty digested,
it's waste.
Nothing there to analyze.
But it could
tell us when it was
eaten by measuring
how far down the
alimentary canal it got.
Wait a minute.
Don't different people
digest at different rates?
I could estimate
Webber's rate
based on how quickly
his system processed
the food he ate
in the contest.
I mean, it could
give us a window.
Webber's phone tracked
where he went that day.
So, if we can
match the time
that Webber ate with
the location on his phone,
it-it might give us
the source of the poison.
(phone chimes)
Let's do it.
Ooh. I got to go.
What's up?
Allie got the warrant.
They're searching
Dr. Auerbach's house.
♪ ♪
Allie. Wait, hold up.
We've got an
LVPD cover car on
the way to help
serve the warrant.
Are you sure you didn't
want to bring in SWAT?
I mean, there is a 61-year-old
psychiatrist behind the door.
(chuckles)
Okay.
Dr. Auerbach?
Las Vegas Police.
We have a search warrant.
Open the door.
Dr. Auerbach?
I mean, the lights are on,
car's in the driveway.
She's probably inside
right now destroying evidence
and we're just
standing here.
You're just
tipping her off.
(sighs) Great.
Seriously?
We've got the right to enter.
And you don't want to wait.
Besides, I'll do less damage
than the battering ram.
♪ ♪
Dr. Auerbach?
LVPD.
We have a search warrant.
Doctor?
If you're here,
show yourself.
Screw this.
Let's find the office.
Clear.
You can get started.
Who's en route
to 104 Shady Lane?
RINALDI:
Sorry, Detective, it's Rinaldi.
We hit some traffic.
You want us to hit the siren?
The time for that
was ten minutes ago.
We've entered
the residence.
10-4. On our way.
♪ ♪
Allie?
What's up?
Auerbach's here.
What just happened?
She killed the lights.
Get out here now!
Yeah, I'm coming.
♪ ♪
(footsteps nearby)
Stop!
I said stop!
(engine revving)
(tires squealing)
Come in, Rinaldi. Suspect
is driving north on Wilkins
in a silver BMW.
I am in pursuit!
RINALDI: 10-4.
We're two minutes out.
(siren wailing)
Three Victor, this is Air One,
unable to locate the silver BMW.
OFFICER: Copy, Air One.
We've lost her, too.
Hey.
Max called,
she said it was
all hands on deck.
How are you?
I'm fine.
Pissed off, you know?
I mean...
Auerbach cut the lights.
We were stumbling around here
and she got outside
and took off.
I tried to catch up with
her, but she was gone.
Hey. Don't beat yourself up.
Anyone processing the scene?
Allie's in the
office with Max.
All right, I'm gonna
jump in there.
You say Auerbach
killed the lights?
Yeah.
All of them?
Okay. I know where to start.
Let me know if something else
comes through. Thank you.
All right,
I got an ATL out,
I alerted the
undersheriff and the Feds.
Auerbach has
a mother and a sister.
LVPD is checking in
on them.
All right,
what you got there?
It's about the
Voynich Manuscript.
What?
It's an illustrated codex from
the Middle Ages in a language
that no one was ever
able to decipher.
Mm-hmm.
Look.
Do you recognize these?
ROBY:
Looks like the symbols
from the silver ink notes.
And Auerbach has marked pages
all throughout the book.
Mm-hmm.
Clearly, it means
something to her.
Mm-hmm.
You think there's some kind
of twisted motive, don't you?
I think she's
behind everything.
And I think we'd have her if
I'd just waited for backup.
No, no, no, don't waste
your time on what-ifs.
(sighs)
Let's just go
get her, huh?
♪ ♪
Hey, Al.
Okay. Auerbach
killed the power.
That means
she stood here
to work the breaker panel.
And check it out.
RAJAN:
Looks like dried mud.
Oh, wow.
It's actually still damp.
Must've just fallen
off her shoe.
It might tell us
where she's been.
Hey, I'd love to stay,
but I got to get back to the lab
for some mushroom stuff.
Yeah, no, I've
got it from here.
Yeah?
Thanks, Josh.
♪ ♪
You're getting to be
a regular up here.
These the inky caps?
HUDSON: Straight from
my neighbor's yard.
Not exactly rare,
these little babies.
(sniffs) Oof.
Well, if I feel like having a
drink and getting violently ill,
I'll have to give them a try.
(chuckles)
Webber ingested the mushrooms
somewhere between 8:00 and 10:00
in the morning of the contest.
Do we know where
he was then?
We should.
This is his geolocation data
from Webber's phone.
Between 8:00 and 10:00 a.m.,
he was...
in his hotel room.
Or the casino downstairs?
PARK: No.
He was in the east wing.
Just rooms. See?
There from 10:15
the night before until
almost 11:00 a.m.
Who'd bring mushrooms
to his room?
I don't know.
But I do know who was there.
Sheila...
you said that Mike
didn't have anything to eat
the morning
of the contest.
Yep, that's right.
Well, we know that
he did eat something
between 8:00
and 10:00 a.m.
And we know you
were in the room
because we've checked
the hotel cameras
and neither
of you left.
Right, no, I'm-I'm sorry,
that's right.
He, um, he had
a protein smoothie.
It's a thing that he does
before competitions
to coat his stomach.
I'm sorry, I forgot.
You just, uh, watched him
have a smoothie? That's all?
Mm-hmm.
Sheila.
Hmm?
You-you look really
uncomfortable.
Why don't you just
tell us what happened?
Come on.
It'll make you feel better.
(crying):
I did it. I killed Michael.
(Sheila sobbing)
He was hurting himself so much
with these competitions.
You know,
he would train
by stuffing himself and then
he would be sick for days.
And then he would...
he'd win $50
or a gift certificate,
or he'd lose...
and then he'd just
do it all over again.
He was not working,
he wasn't seeing his friends,
he was depressed.
I begged him to stop.
And he finally agreed, he said
if he lost the next
competition, he would quit.
And I just thought...
maybe I could help make
that happen.
So you gave him the mushrooms.
My mom used to pick
mushrooms and...
so I know about inky caps.
I ground them up and
I put them in his drink.
I just wanted to slow him down
a little.
I didn't mean to hurt him.
Oh...
I loved Mike more than anything.
And I killed him.
(sobbing)
They are not gonna
go murder two.
Involuntary
manslaughter, maybe.
Well, what's that?
Two to five?
Yeah.
You think that's what
should happen to her?
Not up to us to decide.
Congratulations, young man.
I hear you got a confession.
I guess.
You... You said inky caps
never killed anyone.
Well, they're not
known to, but...
it doesn't make it
impossible.
Yeah, but just-just
incredibly unlikely.
Somebody's all of a sudden
skeptical.
Well, I mean,
we're about to send someone
to prison on a theory.
I'm not sure I believe it.
Hmm.
Now, you-you examined Webber,
would you say he was unhealthy?
Not generally, no.
There was no chronic
disease in evidence.
Why would he be the
first person to die
of inky cap poisoning?
What if he didn't?
Interesting question.
Not sure how you'd
prove the negative.
Maybe it's worth a try.
Did Webber eat
about this much?
No, a cup.
And Webber's about
my height and weight?
Approximately. Why?
I have a hypothesis that, uh...
these won't kill a healthy
person my size.
♪ ♪
Got anything to drink?
(slurping)
♪ ♪
How do you feel?
There's a headache,
nauseated, d-dizzy, chest hurts.
I'm... great.
Drunk and hungover
at the same time.
Hmm.
BP's 140/90.
Elevated, but not scary.
Oof.
Oh.
Scotch is getting better.
Hmm.
Well, you've now
consumed as much alcohol
as I found in
Michael Webber's blood.
Congratulations, you're
now legally intoxicated.
And then some.
I've never seen a CSI
do something quite
like this before.
What are you doing, man?
Were you proud
of your father?
Embarrassingly.
I wasn't.
He was nothing to be
proud of, you know?
But my mom, you know,
she never...
She never gave up on him.
They were married young,
so she saw something in him
that she just kept
on trying to...
bring back to life.
It didn't work, but...
she tried.
So...
you think Michael Webber's widow
is like your mother?
Uh, maybe a little.
(slurring):
I just mostly, I just really
want to know what
killed the guy.
(air hisses)
BP's 149/99.
I don't love this.
Let me ask you something.
Why don't people in
the morgue like me?
Why?
I haven't been here long
enough to hear anything.
You've heard something.
Well...
I-I heard something like
disappointment expressed, uh...
something about your
relationship with...
or lack of relationship
with someone named Allie.
Allie.
Yeah, everyone down here
loves her, I guess. They...
You know what? I shouldn't
have said anything.
I don't...
I really don't know.
No, no, that's, um...
(air pumping)
Thank you.
(air hisses)
Your pressure's dropping.
Huh!
Yeah.
I think the worst
of this is over.
Huh.
Yeah. I'm not even
close to dead, see?
And my hypotenuse is...
My-my... What?
Hypothesis.
What?
Yeah.
Is QED.
Inky cap mushrooms
did not kill Mike Webber.
Yes, I would be
surprised if they did.
Well, let's get surprised.
Let's find out what did.
Wait.
You-you want me to...
You want me to come with you?
Well, I can't drive,
Mr.-- Dr. Hudson.
Any updates on Auerbach?
Nothing on the ATL.
No hits on her credit
cards or plates.
She's a ghost.
What about her family?
Her sister's in Italy, so
she doesn't know anything.
And Mom's in memory care
in a Reno nursing home.
It's all dead ends.
Anything from the sample we
found in Auerbach's basement?
Nada. The soil's
gravelly alluvium
with limestone
and dolostone.
Well, that could be from
anywhere in Clark County.
PARK:
Mm-hmm.
There was some plant matter,
probably grass,
but not enough
to identify. Sorry.
You know what I miss?
Hmm?
The smell
of cut grass.
But we never get
that here. No grass.
We could do that.
Cut some grass?
Use odor.
The plant matter's
still emitting
volatile organic compounds.
We can extract those,
run them through GCMS,
identify the plant.
If we identify the plant,
we might be able
to pin it down to a location.
Or not.
It's a pretty
small sample.
What, do you have, like,
a date to get to or something?
You're cold, Rajan.
Let's do it.
♪ ♪
(beeps)
Ooh, bing-bong-bing.
The plant's something called
Charleston Beardtongue.
Okay, whatever that is.
Where does it grow?
I'm checking.
Okay, it says here
Charleston Beardtongue is
endemic to the Spring Mountains.
A lot of vacation homes
up there.
Yeah, good places to hide.
We already checked.
Auerbach doesn't rent
or own in that area.
Well, we know she was
just up there, so...
Let's double-check.
Mike Webber called 911.
The ambulance arrived
four minutes later
and he was dead.
It wasn't blood loss,
it wasn't poison.
So, what killed him?
This really isn't my
place of business.
Careful. Hey, careful,
careful. Careful.
HUDSON: Why?
FOLSOM: That could
be a live line.
This could electrify
the water a little bit.
It's okay. I'm good.
Got shoes on.
Insulation, you know?
I'm good.
♪ ♪
Unless there's
a hole in your shoe.
What?
FOLSOM:
Mike Webber had a hole
in his shoe.
The ground was wet,
the light was on.
If you think that
Mr. Webber was electrocuted,
you are still drunk.
But I do.
Think that.
The autopsy
doesn't support it.
With electrocution, the cells
of the cardiac tissue
show elongated nuclei.
Mr. Webber's were
completely normal.
But aren't there cases
where that doesn't happen?
Only when the voltage
is quite low, not deadly.
Mike Webber was under
a lot of stress.
Stabbed, poisoned, 17 pounds
of pork in his stomach.
I mean, it might not take
much voltage to stop his heart.
You know,
you'd need proof.
FOLSOM:
You said there were marks on
his toe and his hand, right?
Could those be from
low-voltage electricity?
Yes. Yes, they could.
ROBY:
So, you think
Mike Webber was electrocuted?
I know he was.
Mike's poisoned, bleeding,
and in the middle of a puddle
of electrified water.
But he doesn't feel it because
the rubber soles of his shoes
are acting as insulation.
And then something happens.
Maybe he trips,
maybe he just falls down.
And when he does,
his big toe touches the water
because there's a hole
in his shoe.
And then he reaches out
to, like,
steady himself, probably.
And when he does,
circuit's closed.
And electricity flows.
(zapping)
That's it.
You on board with this?
I-I re-examined the body.
The marks on the decedent's
hand and toe
are consistent with
low-voltage electricity.
The nuclei
of the skin cells
at the points of entry
and exit are elongated.
That's conclusive.
The cause of death
is electrocution.
All right, I'll call the D.A.
and the LVPD
and tell them to
release Sheila Webber.
Get yourself
some coffee, brother.
Hey, uh, Doc, you want
to grab a burger?
Or maybe a
couple dozen?
Eh, another time,
Mr. Folsom.
Oh, no, just
call me Josh.
Mr. Folsom.
Never have I
seen a man solve
the same murder
three times before.
Mm.
It was a...
(chuckles)
unique experience.
Mm.
I hope we get
to do it again.
We'll see.
(chuckles)
Yeah.
SHEILA:
My lawyer says they're
dropping the charges?
The homicide and assault
charges, yes, but, you know,
poisoning someone
is also a crime.
And the D.A. still
may charge you with that,
but it's up to their office.
Yeah. That makes sense.
You didn't kill
your husband, Sheila.
You're not responsible
for his death.
It's all just a lot to process.
Yeah.
But I really appreciate what
you've done for me, I do.
Thank you.
♪ ♪
What's going on?
We got a lead on Diane Auerbach.
We think she's in her cabin
in the Spring Mountains.
Her cabin? I thought she didn't
own property outside Vegas.
She doesn't, her mom does.
It's in her name.
She's there now. We've got her.
(sirens wailing)
(tires screeching)
♪ ♪
Go, go.
On me, on me, on me!
OFFICER:
Two Victor,
main room clear.
OFFICER 2:
Two X-ray, bedroom clear.
Anybody have eyes on Auerbach?
I don't understand,
if she's not here then...
OFFICER:
Detective, over here.
♪ ♪
CHAVEZ:
That's no suicide.
So Auerbach's not
the silver ink killer.
ROBY:
I'll say.
She didn't get up there herself.
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
and TOYOTA.
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org